THE PETS.


_THE SHEEP._

The sheep is a very useful animal. Its wool, sheared off, makes us cloth
and flannel, and all kinds of woollen goods; and its flesh, called
mutton, is a chief part of our food. When sheep are little they are
called lambs, and are very playful, pretty creatures.

[Illustration: SHEEP.]

Sheep soon learn to know the voice of their shepherd, and will follow
it. In Eastern countries the shepherd walks before his flock, and they
are led by his voice. There are dogs called sheep-dogs, which take care
of the flocks, and protect the sheep, and keep them together. In some
countries these dogs have often to fight with wolves, which attack the
sheep and carry them off whenever they can; but the dogs are quite able
to keep the wolf away when they are trained to do so.

[Illustration: RABBITS.]

On the Scottish hills the sheep-dog is often obliged to seek his charge
in the snow-drifts, and to help get out a poor sheep or lamb which has
got buried in it. Sheep love green meadows and pure water. You remember,
I dare say, the beautiful Psalm, "The Lord is my shepherd, therefore I
shall lack nothing."


_RABBITS._

Are the favourite pets of boys. They are merry little creatures, and it
is an amusing sight to watch them running over the green turf about
their warren, when they are free. They have many enemies, however, such
as dogs, foxes, and weasels. But, in spite of their enemies, rabbits
live a merry life together.

There are a great many different kinds of tame rabbits; some are white,
with pink eyes and long ears. Rabbits have many young ones. One pair
will have fifty-six little rabbits in a year. So it is lucky many other
creatures feed on them. If they were left to increase, they would soon
eat up every stalk of corn and all the green herbs.

The native country of the rabbit is Spain. In the Orkney Islands, where
there are great numbers of rabbits, the wild ones are of a grey colour,
and in winter time almost white.

The fur of the rabbit is much used for making hats. They are good for
food also.


_THE COW._

Is a very valuable animal; indeed I do not know what we should do
without her. She gives us milk and butter, cheese and cream; her skin is
of great use, and her flesh is often eaten as beef. Cows grow fond of
those who are kind to them.

[Illustration: COW AND CALF.]

There are a great many different kinds of cows; some red, some black,
some brindled, white or spotted. Herefordshire cows have white faces.
The ancient Britons had great numbers of fine cows; and wild cattle
were common in our country seven hundred years ago. In the neighbourhood
of London, in Henry II.'s reign, there was a large forest which
contained a great many wild bulls and cows.

[Illustration: THE DONKEY.]

The cow is a good mother, very fond of her calf. The bull is a very
bold, fierce animal. It has a great dislike to the colour red, and will
run after and if it can toss any one wearing it. In Spain they have a
cruel sport, called bull fights, between these brave animals and men on
horseback.

The flesh of the cow and ox is called beef; that of the calf is veal.


_THE DONKEY._

This patient and useful animal is supposed to have come at first from
the East, where it still continues to be of a greater size and of a much
better appearance. They were as valuable there in former ages as horses;
great men and judges rode on asses. The ass is very fond of its foal,
and can be attached to its master if kindly treated. Its milk is thought
very good for consumptive people. It is very sure-footed, and strong,
and able to carry heavy burdens.

The Donkey is a very useful animal to the poor. It can do a great deal
of work on very coarse and cheap food. Thistles make a dainty dinner for
the ass. It is patient and gentle, but occasionally very obstinate; a
fault chiefly produced in the poor beast by ill-usuage.

Children should never be cruel to this poor animal, but treat it kindly,
and it will not then be stubborn and slow, but will do its best to carry
them.


_THE COCK, THE HEN, AND THE CHICKENS._

Here is a fine farm-yard family! very useful friends of ours. The cock,
who is a brave, spirited bird, wakes us up in the morning by crowing;
the hen lays us eggs for breakfast, and when the wee chicks are big
enough, they are very good food, as roast chicken. The cock teaches us
watchfulness; the hen, motherly love.

[Illustration: THE COCK, THE HEN, AND THE CHICKENS.]

There are many different kinds of fowls. The largest are the tall Cochin
Chinas; the smallest the pert little Bantams. It is a great amusement
for children to have a few fowls to feed, and take care of. Feeding them
and finding their eggs is one of the country child's pleasures.

The hen sits on her eggs for three weeks; and when the chicks are
hatched, she takes the greatest care of them, gathering them under her
wings when danger is near or the weather is at all cold; and she is
ready to fight a hawk or even a dog in defence of her little ones.

Fowls feed on barley or any kind of grain, and pick up worms, &c., in
their run. Stinging-nettles are very good food for chickens.


_THE HORSE._

This noblest of animals is believed to be a native of Arabia; but was in
our islands before the Romans came here. The first money coined in
Britain was stamped with the figure of a horse.

[Illustration: THE HORSE.]

The horse has a wonderful memory. He never forgets a place to which he
has once been taken. He loves his master if well treated; and in battles
he displays the greatest courage and joy. He also understands sounds,
and loves music. Indeed, the horse may be called the friend of man, and
deserves all the kindness we can show him.

The Arabs bring up their horses with their children in their own tents;
and the steed thus reared is very sensible and gentle. An Arab will not
sell his favourite horse for any sum, however large: it is as dear to
him as his children.


_THE GOAT._

The goat is a very useful animal. Its flesh is very good, though English
people seldom eat it. Its milk is very good also, and of use to people
in consumption. The most beautiful gloves are made from its skin.

[Illustration: GOATS.]

Goats abound on the Welsh mountains; it is, indeed, an animal that loves
the great hills. The Welsh goats are white; they are very active, and
walk on the brink of precipices, and take the most wonderful leaps. The
scent of a goat is unpleasant, but it is thought to prevent infection
amongst cattle.

Horses are very fond of goats. They are more common in France than with
us. In that country one sees a goat with nearly every flock of sheep.

Goats' flesh is called "kid." Do you remember how Jacob deceived his
father with the skin and meat of a kid of the goats?
